Draft: dash tx value signing (#95)
dashpay/dips: dash-tx-value-signing.md

<pre>
DIP: tx-value-signing

> Title: Transaction value signing analogous to BIP143 as implemented in Bitcoin Cash

Reviewer: This mentions Bitcoin Cash yet there is no link to the corresponding spec (https://github.com/bitcoincashorg/bitcoincash.org/blob/master/spec/replay-protected-sighash.md ?) and in general it looks more like bip143 with segwit related parts removed.

Authors: greatwolf, mayoree
Status: Draft
Layer: Consensus (hard fork)
Created: 2021-07-03
License: MIT License
</pre>

# Table of Contents

* [Abstract](#abstract)
* [Motivation](#motivation)
* [Specification](#specification)
* [Implementation](#implementation)
* [Test](#test)
* [References](#references)
* [Copyright](#copyright)

# Abstract

> This DIP describes a digest algorithm that implements the signature covers value when signing Dash transactions. It opens the path for more efficient signing of Dash transactions on hardware wallets.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence is not very clear to me. Looks like it may be part of 2 sentences that got mixed together during editing?

The proposed digest algorithm is adapted from BIP143[[1]](#bip143) as it minimizes redundant data hashing in verification, covers the input value by the signature and is already implemented in a wide variety of applications[[2]](#bip143Motivation).

# Motivation

There are 4 ECDSA signature verification codes in the original DASH script system: `CHECKSIG`, `CHECKSIGVERIFY`, `CHECKMULTISIG`, `CHECKMULTISIGVERIFY` (“sigops”). According to the sighash type (`ALL`, `NONE`, `SINGLE`, `ANYONECANPAY`), a transaction digest is generated with a double SHA256 of a serialized subset of the transaction, and the signature is verified against this digest with a given public key.

Unfortunately, there are at least 2 weaknesses in the original Signature Hash transaction digest algorithm:

* For the verification of each signature, the amount of data hashing is proportional to the size of the transaction. Therefore, data hashing grows in O(n<sup>2</sup>) as the number of sigops in a transaction increases. This could be fixed by optimizing the digest algorithm by introducing some reusable “midstate”, so the time complexity becomes O(n).

> * The algorithm does not involve the amount of DASH being spent by the input. This is usually not a problem for online network nodes as they could request for the specified transaction to acquire the output value. For an offline transaction signing device (cold wallet"), however, the unknowing of input amount makes it impossible to calculate the exact amount being spent and the transaction fee. To cope with this problem a cold wallet must also acquire the full transaction being spent, which could be a big obstacle in the implementation of lightweight, air-gapped wallet. By including the input value of part of the transaction digest, a cold wallet may safely sign a transaction by learning the value from an untrusted source. In the case that a wrong value is provided and signed, the signature would be invalid and no funding might be lost. <ref>[https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=181734.0 SIGHASH_WITHINPUTVALUE: Super-lightweight HW wallets and offline data]</ref>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The algorithm does not involve the amount of DASH being spent by the input. This is usually not a problem for online network nodes as they could request the specified transaction to acquire the output value. For an offline transaction signing device (cold wallet"), however, not knowing the input amount makes it impossible to calculate the exact amount being spent and the transaction fee. To cope with this problem, a cold wallet must also acquire the full transaction being spent, which could be a big obstacle in the implementation of lightweight, air-gapped wallet. By including the input value of part of the transaction digest, a cold wallet may safely sign a transaction by learning the value from an untrusted source. In the case that a wrong value is provided and signed, the signature would be invalid and no funding would be lost. See [SIGHASH_WITHINPUTVALUE: Super-lightweight HW wallets and offline data](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=181734.0).
```

> # Specification

Reviewer: The upgrade path is not described: btc used segwit as an activation path and bch used `SIGHASH_FORKID`+`SCRIPT_ENABLE_SIGHASH_FORKID` https://github.com/bitcoincashorg/bitcoincash.org/blob/master/spec/replay-protected-sighash.md#activation. What is the proposed way to activate this DIP in Dash?

  
  hash preimage: 0100000096b827c8483d4e9b96712b6713a7b68d6e8003a781feba36c31143470b4efd3752b0a642eea2fb7ae638c36f6252b6750293dbe574a806984b8e4d8548339a3bef51e1b804cc89d182d279655c3aa89e815b1b309fe287d9b2b55d57b90ec68a010000001976a9141d0f172a0ecb48aee1be1f2687d2963ae33f71a188ac0046c32300000000ffffffff863ef3e1a92afbfdb97f31ad0fc7683ee943e9abcf2501590ff8f6551f47e5e51100000001000000
  
    nVersion:     01000000
    hashPrevouts: 96b827c8483d4e9b96712b6713a7b68d6e8003a781feba36c31143470b4efd37
    hashSequence: 52b0a642eea2fb7ae638c36f6252b6750293dbe574a806984b8e4d8548339a3b
    outpoint:     ef51e1b804cc89d182d279655c3aa89e815b1b309fe287d9b2b55d57b90ec68a01000000
    scriptCode:   1976a9141d0f172a0ecb48aee1be1f2687d2963ae33f71a188ac
    amount:       0046c32300000000
    nSequence:    ffffffff
    hashOutputs:  863ef3e1a92afbfdb97f31ad0fc7683ee943e9abcf2501590ff8f6551f47e5e5
    nLockTime:    11000000
    nHashType:    01000000
    
  sigHash:      c37af31116d1b27caf68aae9e3ac82f1477929014d5b917657d0eb49478cb670
  signature:    304402203609e17b84f6a7d30c80bfa610b5b4542f32a8a0d5447a12fb1366d7f01cc44a0220573a954c4518331561406f90300e8f3358f51928d43c212a8caed02de67eebee
    

>   The serialized signed transaction is: 01000000000102fff7f7881a8099afa6940d42d1e7f6362bec38171ea3edf433541db4e4ad969f00000000494830450221008b9d1dc26ba6a9cb62127b02742fa9d754cd3bebf337f7a55d114c8e5cdd30be022040529b194ba3f9281a99f2b1c0a19c0489bc22ede944ccf4ecbab4cc618ef3ed01eeffffffef51e1b804cc89d182d279655c3aa89e815b1b309fe287d9b2b55d57b90ec68a0100000000ffffffff02202cb206000000001976a9148280b37df378db99f66f85c95a783a76ac7a6d5988ac9093510d000000001976a9143bde42dbee7e4dbe6a21b2d50ce2f0167faa815988ac000247304402203609e17b84f6a7d30c80bfa610b5b4542f32a8a0d5447a12fb1366d7f01cc44a0220573a954c4518331561406f90300e8f3358f51928d43c212a8caed02de67eebee0121025476c2e83188368da1ff3e292e7acafcdb3566bb0ad253f62fc70f07aeee635711000000

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this matters (perhaps @UdjinM6 or @PastaPastaPasta can provide input), but this isn't a valid Dash transaction. Putting it into `decoderawtransaction` returns `TX decode failed (code -22)`. It appears that this is just the example for a Native P2WPKH tx from [BIP-143](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0143.mediawiki#native-p2wpkh).
